# RSAEncryptionProject
In this project, we are going to implement the well-known RSA algorithm for public-key cryptography, and use the algorithm to encrypt and decrypt a file. 

Required Files:
1. RSAGenKey.java : Generates a private key
2. RSAEncrypt.java : Encrypts a file
3. RSADecrypt.java : Decrypts a file
4. Project 2.doc:  project document

Knowledge
This assignment will also help you to become familiar with the following important content knowledge in information security: 

Greatest common divisor
Multiplicative inverse
Euler’s Theorem
RSA encryption/decryption

Tasks
You should use Java to implement the algorithm. In Java, the class BigInteger provides the functionality to deal with large n-bit numbers. Please explore this class for some important functions you can use to implement the algorithm.

1. Key generation
Your program, “RSAGenKey.java”, either takes the key size as input or takes input as p, q, and e.

 If only one argument k is given, the program randomly picks p and q in k bits and generates a key pair.  For example:

c:\> java  RSAGenKey 12

Two files will be created.: pub_key.txt and pri_key.txt.  pub_key.txt contains a public key in the following format:

e = 8311

n = 31005883

pri_key.txt contains the corresponding private key in the following format:

d = 11296191

n = 31005883

If the program takes p, q, and e as the input (java RSAGenKey p q e), it should generate the corresponding private key. The key pair should also be saved in two files as described above. For example

c:\> java RSA 6551 4733 8311

The same files pub_key.txt and pri_key.txt should be created.

2. File Encryption 
You will write a Java program to encrypt an arbitrary file. Note that the RSA algorithm specifies how to encrypt a single number ( < n). To encrypt a file, it is sufficient to break up the file into blocks so that each block can be treated as a number and encrypted with the RSA algorithm. In this homework,  you will use a block size of 3 bytes. To treat each block as a number, simply use a 00 - 26 encoding scheme (26 for space). 

After encrypting the block, the encrypted number has to be written out to the output file. Use a space to separate the encrypted numbers.

For example. Suppose the input file consists of the following letters (in order): this is an example.

To generate the first encrypted number, pick up the first block consisting of three letters: t, h, and i. Then transform the block to an integer 190708 and encrypt it.

 

The encryption algorithm should be runnable from a file named “RSAEncrypt.java” (that is, this file should have the main method). The program will be called with a plaintext file and a key file one each on a line. For this part, you should use pub_txt to encrypt the message.

 

The program will be invoked as :

 

c:\> java RSAEncrypt test.txt  pub_key.txt

where test.txtLinks to an external site. is the name of the file to be encrypted.

The encrypted file that the program generates is a plaintext file named test.enc, 

Note: In order for the scheme to work, make sure that n  is bigger than 262626.

3. File Decryption
you will write a program to decrypt the encrypted file that has been generated by the encryption procedure described earlier.

The decryption algorithm should be runnable from a file named “RSADecrypt.java” (that is, this file should have the main method). The program will be called with the input encrypted file and the key file as arguments. The key file will be in the same format as described previously.

The program will be invoked as :

c:\> java RSADecrypt test.enc pri_key.txt

where test. enc is the name of the file to be decrypted. The decrypted file that the program generates should be named “test.dec”.